We’re going back to basics this summer, so let’s talk about avocado toast! Creamy avocado spread onto well-toasted bread is one of my favorite quick meals. 
Actually, it’s one of my favorite meals in general. It’s so delicious, I’d call it one of life’s simplest pleasures. As usual, I have some strong opinions on what makes the best avocado toast. 
So today, I thought I’d share my basic recipe, with my best tips and favorite variations. If you are a stranger to avocado toast, you’ve been missing out and we must remedy this situation immediately.
If you’re well-familiar with the joy of avocado toast, I hope you find some helpful tips and some fun new ways to change up your toast. Onward!
You want ripe but not over-ripe Hass avocados. Look for avocados that yield a bit to a gentle squeeze, but avoid using avocados that are mushy or stringy on the inside. 
If you run into any bruised or brown bits when you cut them open, scoop those out and discard before mashing the rest. I think sturdy, thick-sliced, whole grain bread make the best avocado toast. 
Golden, well-toasted bread offers a sturdy base and a crisp, shattering contrast against the creamy avocado. Mashed avocado is more creamy and luxurious than sliced avocado (think guacamole vs. plain avocado). 
But don’t mash it on the toast! You risk poking holes in your toast or smashing it. Cut your avocados in half, remove the pit, scoop the flesh into a bowl or onto the side of your plate, and mash it up with a fork.
Mashing a lot of avocados at once? Use a potato masher or pastry cutter instead of a measly little fork. You’ll want to mix in at least a pinch of salt per avocado half. 
Bonus points? Finish your avocado toast with a light sprinkle of flaky sea salt. Here are a few easy ways to take your avocado toast up a notch. 
Pick one or a few! Add garlic: Lightly rub a peeled raw garlic clove over the top of your toast before adding the avocado, or mix a tiny pinch of garlic powder into the avocado.
Add fresh leafy herbs or your favorite herbed sauce: Chopped fresh basil, cilantro, dill or parsley are all good with avocado. So is a drizzle of pesto, zhoug sauce (spicy cilantro sauce), or chimichurri.
Put an egg on it: I love to top my avocado toast with a fried egg for extra protein (example here). You can do a poached egg or scrambled egg if you prefer.
More extras: Quick-pickled onions or radishes or jalapeños, your favorite hot sauce, or a sprinkle of sliced cherry tomatoes.
Here are my official favorite avocado toast variations, shown from top to bottom. Add a generous sprinkle of everything bagel seasoning on top of your avocado toast. 
Make your own with my everything bagel blend recipe, or buy it at Trader Joe’s or Williams-Sonoma. These seasonings tend to be salty, so be careful not to over-salt your avocado.
Mix chopped fresh radish, green onion, jalapeño (seeds and ribs removed) and toasted sunflower seeds. Sprinkle generously on your toast.
If you have great tomatoes on hand, this is delicious. Top your avocado toast with sliced tomato, add a light drizzle of high-quality thick balsamic vinegar or designated balsamic glaze, and some torn fresh basil leaves.
This NYC café supposedly started the avocado toast trend. Spread a thick layer of mashed avocado over your toast, spread it so it’s smooth and mounded, then drizzle with 1 teaspoon extra-virgin olive oil, 1 teaspoon lemon juice, and a generous sprinkle of red pepper flakes and flaky salt.
Avocado toast is creamy, crisp and so satisfying. It’s a delicious and simple breakfast, snack or light meal! It’s best consumed immediately, since the avocado browns over time. Recipe as written yields 1 slice of basic avocado toast; multiply as necessary.
Avocado toast is pretty divisive: You either can’t get enough of it, or you’re totally sick of hearing about it. With a plethora of avocado toast recipes out there—some simple, others more complex—it’s easy to wonder if we’ve reached peak avocado.
But before you write off this open-faced Instagrammable marvel, let’s remember why we love avocado toast in the first place. Mashed avocado spread over crusty whole-wheat bread, finished with olive oil, red pepper flakes, and flaky sea salt—does it get much better than that?  It’s full of healthy, unsaturated fats, packed with fiber, and it’s an effortless breakfast or snack.
So forget fancy-pants versions topped with lobster, truffles, and gold flakes—or spinoffs like avocado art, avocado roses, and avocado toast chocolate bars. You need a perfect avocado toast recipe that’s 100% no-nonsense.
Look no further. This is the easiest—and the last—avocado toast recipe you’ll ever need to know. Memorize the recipe, then use it as a jumping off point for your favorite avocado toast riffs. 
Put an egg on it, top it with tuna salad, or crown it with fluffy alfalfa sprouts for a healthy and satisfying meal. You can mix up the toppings too—we love Japanese furikake or everything bagel seasoning.
When it comes to Avocados I’d consider myself an expert. Not only did I grow up eating Avocados 24/7 but I wrote an entire book on Avocados (my first cookbook Absolutely Avocados).  With that came a lot of practice creating the the best avocado toast recipe and variations.  It was a tough job – but I’m here for you! 
Before we get into my favorite variations of avo toast, let’s dive into the basics of how to make perfect avocado toast. Pick a great avocado.  
There is an art with how to pick a good avocado. I tend to buy my avocados rock hard so they can ripen on my own kitchen counter without anyone else touching them. 
When they are ready, they should just have the slightest give to them check out how to cut and peel an avocado here The bread matters.  
I prefer to use something thick and grainy. More flavor and substance to hold all that beautiful avocado. Chunky avocado vs smooth avocado… it’s really a personal decision but I prefer it mostly smooth with a few chunks. 
If it’s too chunky, I find that the avocado falls off and no one wants that. MALDON MALDON MALDON.always finish your avocado toast with a sprinkling of chunky salt. 
It bumps up the flavor in the best possible way and adds a bit of texture. OK now that we have the basics covered, here are my 5 favorite ways to take your avocado toast game to the next level. 
Each one is delish and will make your mouth water! One is topped with tomatoes and basil vinaigrette and it’s perfect for lunch! Another is topped with Smoked Salmon and Red Onions which is kinda perfect for breakfast. As is the Avo Toast with Bacon and Eggs! I love the one topped with Goat Cheese and Chives and the other one with Pico de Gallo for a little mid-afternoon snack!
But the truth of the matter is, you really can’t go wrong with any of these, at any time of the day! Is Avocado Toast healthy?
Especially if you’re using a great grainy bread. And avocados are loaded with all the good fats that we need on a daily basis. 
So you know what they say. An avocado a day. What is the best way to smash an avocado? I like to take the avocado flesh out of the skin, put it into a medium bowl and mash it with a fork. 
Don’t add anything into the avocado (ie; herbs) until it’s the desired consistency. Is Avocado good for breakfast? Heck yes it is. 
It’s great for breakfast and lunch and dinner. How long does an avocado last? Once it’s open, it has about a 2 day life. I like to spread a little lemon or lime juice on a halved avocado if I’m saving it for the next day to reduce any browning.
How do you store avocados? If they are NOT ripe, I store them on the counter until they are ready. Once they are ripe, I transfer them to the fridge until ready to use!
How do you get avocados to ripen faster? Place them in a brown paper bag with either a banana or apple. This should speed up the ripening process by a day or two.
When avocado toast came onto the scene years ago, lots of people wrote it off as a trend. But as someone who still eats it for breakfast or lunch a few times a week, I have to say that I think avocado toast is here to stay! It’s super easy to make, it’s healthy and satisfying, and it’s a blank canvas for flavorful seasonal toppings. What’s not to love?
Below, you’ll find my basic avocado toast recipe along with 5 fun & fancy variations. Whether you toss them together for breakfast, enjoy them for lunch, or make them for a quick and easy dinner, I hope you love them as much as I do!
Made with good bread and ripe avocados, even simple avocado toast is delicious. However, it can also serve as a template for all sorts of fun toppings. Try adding chopped fresh herbs, a drizzle of extra-virgin olive oil, black pepper or red pepper flakes, or a poached or scrambled egg. And if you have tahini sauce, cilantro lime dressing, pesto, or chipotle sauce on hand, even a small drizzle will kick your toast up a notch.
If you want to take things one step further, use multiple toppings to make one of these variations. Whenever I make banh mi sandwiches, I always some of the pickles left over. This bright and tangy toast is the perfect way to use them up!
These Tex-Mex toppings make this toast spicy and fun. A pop of pickled onion takes it over the top. It’s worth getting a jar of harissa just to make this toast! It combines with these toppings to create delicious creamy/crunchy texture and tangy/smoky flavor. My personal favorite! I top avocado toast with sushi fixings in this fresh, sweet, and savory variation. My dairy-free riff on a loaded everything bagel, with mashed avocado instead of cream cheese! Here’s what else is on it.
Making avocado toast is easy! You likely already have your own method, but these simple tips will take it from good to great. Better ingredients make better toast. Use the best bread you can find! I like to toast thick slices of sourdough or whole grain bread. For an extra pop of flavor, lightly rub each slice of bread with the cut side of a halved garlic clove as soon as it comes out of the toaster.
Mash the avocado directly on the toast. Some recipes call for you to mash the avocado in a separate bowl before piling it onto the bread, but in my opinion, the more texture the avocado has, the better your toast will be (we’re not making guacamole). Halve the avocado and remove the pit. Then, use a paring knife to score cubes of the avocado inside the skin without piercing the skin. Drizzle the diced flesh with lemon juice and sprinkle it with flaky sea salt before scooping and mashing onto the toast. Alternatively, slice the avocado inside the skin, season it, and fan the slices onto the bread. No need to mash!
Don’t skip the lemon and salt. They add brightness and make the flavors pop! I like to season the avocado inside the skin, before I scoop it onto the bread. Enjoy your avocado toast on its own, or pair it with a smoothie, salad, or soup for a heartier meal. Enjoy!